Version 1 of the contribution guidelines (#107)
atlas-outreach-data-tools/notebooks-collection-opendata: README.md

## Running the notebooks

### Run on Binder
To execute in MyBinder:
[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/atlas-outreach-data-tools/notebooks-collection-opendata/HEAD)

For more complex needs, such as running multiple notebooks review the [Binder Documentation](https://mybinder.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#) for guidance on setting up a more personalized Binder environment.

Note: before starting running the code in the jupyter notebooks, click on the up right button "not trusted" in order to get "trusted" displayed. This should lead the JavaScript to be executed, that is useful to visualise interactive histograms. If that doesn't work, simply go to the top of the notebook, find the cell that contains the line of code `%jsroot` and comment out that.

### Run on Colab
To execute in Colab:
[![Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/atlas-outreach-data-tools/notebooks-collection-opendata.git)

Much of the functionality is the same as in Binder, but with some subtle differences that are explained in the [Colab Documentation](https://colab.research.google.com).

> ### Run on Docker containers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Run in Docker containers
```

## Contribution guide
We appreciate the willingness to participate in the ATLAS Open Data project. Below you can find some steps to help you contribute successfully (inspired by [The Turing Way](https://book.the-turing-way.org) contribution guidelines):

### 1. Comment on an existing issue or open a new issue referencing your addition
Before creating a pull request (PR), discuss the change you want to make. That's the easiest way we can check that the work is not overlapping with current work and that it aligns with the goals of the Open Data project. 

In [this blog](https://www.igvita.com/2011/12/19/dont-push-your-pull-requests/) you can find some reasons why putting this work in upfront is so useful to everyone involved.

When opening a new issue be sure to fill all the information necessary. The issue template should help you doing so.

### 2. Fork the repository
Make a fork of the repository in the upper right corner of the repository page in GitHub. In this new copy, changes won't affect anyone else's work, and you can make as many changes as you want. 

> Make sure to mantain the fork up to date to avoid conflicts when merging. If you already have conflicts, check [GitHub's guide to resolving a merge conflict](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/addressing-merge-conflicts/resolving-a-merge-conflict-on-github).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure to keep the fork up to date (or develop from a branch based on the main repository's main branch) to avoid conflicts when merging. If you already have conflicts, check [GitHub's guide to resolving a merge conflict](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/addressing-merge-conflicts/resolving-a-merge-conflict-on-github).
```
